The spear's exclusive enchantment,
Lunge, just got a huge change along with
a few other changes. Here's what
changed. First, the charge attack now
does more damage when both the player
and mobs use it. I tested this with a
player and it did the same damage as it
used to, but zombie horse jockeyies did
way more damage from around three damage
to around 10 damage depending on speed.
So, zombie horses might actually be a
big threat if you run into one early
game, which I love. Next, the spear now
gives visual feedback when it hits a
mob, which is a nice touch. But most
importantly, the lunge enchantment got a
huge rework. The lunge enchantment
launches the player forward when used,
which allows for some crazy movement
potential. But using the lunge used to
take a ton of durability. With lunge
three on a spear, it took 128 durability
per lunge, meaning you only had about 16
lunges with a netherite spear, or around
60 if you had unbreaking on it. But the
spear was repairable with mending. So
every 60 lunges you'd have to repair it.
But Mojang just changed this. So you'll
no longer need to repair your spear
often, but instead eat food often.